Animal Info.
I am going to upload the pictures to the google docs account but here is the information for the animals.

American Bison
 
Range Weight: 318 to 900 kg.
Range length: 2.1 to 3.8 m.
Season most seen: Year Round
Bison are large, vegetarian mammals. Bulls can weigh near 1,800 pounds and females average about 1,000 pounds.
Bison breed from mid-July to mid-August. Calves are born singly in the spring. They are strict vegetarians, grazing on grasses and sedges as they move between meadows, foothills, and high-elevation plateaus.
Once distributed across the Great Plains, wild bison are now limited to pockets. There has been a wild population in Yellowstone National Park in the United States since prehistoric times.

Grizzly Bear
 
Range Weight: 200 – 600 pounds
Average full grown height: 6.5 feet
Season most seen: Fall
As an omnivore, the grizzly bear eats both plants and animals. Approximately 80 to 90 percent of its diet is green vegetation, nuts, seeds, berries, and roots. Grizzlies also eat insects, and they often leave behind overturned stones and rotted logs. Most of the meat in the diet comes from animal carcasses, though the grizzly will occasionally prey on elk. In Alaska and Canada, salmon is an important food source. In the Greater Yellowstone and Northern Rockies regions, grizzlies will feed predominantly on whitebark pine seeds if given a large enough source.

Black Bear 
 
Range weight: 86 to 901 pounds.
Range height: 4 to 6.5 feet.
Season most seen: Fall
Black Bears eat a little meat, and some insects, but they rely on fruit, nuts, and vegetation for the bulk of their nutritional needs. They are not all black. Most are, with brown muzzles, but in some western forests they are brown, cinnamon, or blond, and a few, in southern Alaska and British Columbia, are creamy white or bluish-gray.

Bighorn Sheep
 
Range weight: 117 to 280 pounds.
Range length: 5 to 6 feet.
Season most seen: Winter and Spring
Bighorn Sheep live only in remote, treeless mountain terrain. They use steep slopes and cliffs to escape from wolves, coyotes, and cougars. Many migrate seasonally, some moving a few hundred meters up or down a mountainside and others going 10-20 km from one mountain range to another. Some males make much longer migrations. Males and females live apart except during the mating season, when males vie for access to females. Larger size and age usually confer an advantage. The males rear up on their hind legs, kicking with their front legs and clashing their horns. Although Bighorn Sheep have heavily buttressed heads that absorb the shock of butting, these battles can result in death. Ewes usually give birth to one lamb, in May; twins are extremely rare. The lambs can follow their mothers within a day after birth, and nurse for 4-5 months. Bighorns eat seasonally available grasses and other vegetation, and cactus in the desert. They are attracted to natural salt licks, cattle licks, and piles of salt placed along highways for melting snow. In some places where bighorn populations went extinct, groups have been reintroduced, but many parts of their original range are no longer suitable. The species is declining in desert areas.


Bobcats
 
Range weight: 8 to 33 pounds.
Range length: 2 to 3.4 feet.
Season most seen: Fall and Winter
The Bobcat is the most widely distributed native cat in North America. Bobcats occupy many habitat types, from desert to swamp to mountains. They are mostly nocturnal predators, taking quarry ranging in size from mouse to deer. Rabbits and hares make up a large part of the bobcat's diet. Like Lynx, male and female Bobcats maintain territories by scent-marking. An individuals territory does not overlap with another Bobcats of the same sex, but females home ranges can fall within the territories of males. Females breed sooner than males, at about one year of age; males are ready to breed when they are about two. One litter, with an average of three kittens, is born each year.

Canada Lynx
 
Range weight: 10 to 38 pounds.
Range length: 2 to 3.5 feet.
Season seen most: Winter
Lynx have dense winter coats, and their large feet, padded with thick fur, let them run atop deep snow. A large portion of their diet consists of snowshoe hares, which are similarly equipped to run on snow. Lynx hunt mostly at dawn and dusk. They are solitary, and maintain nonexclusive territories. The ranges of females overlap more than the ranges of males. Adults scent-mark their territories by urinating and defecating on logs, stumps, and bushes along their travel routes. The chemistry of their urine changes seasonally and this generates different signals, attracting mates during breeding season and repelling other Lynx at other times.

Coyotes
 
Range weight: 15 to 46 pounds.
Range length: 2 to 3 feet.
Season most seen: Spring and Fall
Coyotes are among the most adaptable mammals in North America. They have an enormous geographical distribution and can live in very diverse ecological settings, even successfully making their homes in suburbs, towns, and cities. They are omnivorous, eating plants, animals, and carrion. Socially, coyotes live in a variety of arrangements. Some live alone, others in mated pairs, and others in packs, which may consist of one mated pair, their new young, and offspring from the previous season that have not yet left their parents. Packs are an advantage when preying on larger mammals such as deer, or defending food resources, territory, and themselves.

Elk
 
Average weight: 1091 pounds.
Average length:  9.7 feet.
Season most seen: Spring
There are more than 750,000 Elk today, many living on federally protected lands in the United States and Canada. They have prospered due to good conservation and management practices, and also perhaps because of the decline of large predators. Herds can include 200 or more animals. Males and females usually congregate in separate herds until the breeding season, in late September or early October. Then adult males use a variety of ostentatious behaviors to distinguish themselves and compete for access to reproducing females. They use their elaborate six-tined antlers, which may measure nearly 2 m in length along the main shaft, to clash with one another, they call loudly, and they spray urine. A calf weighing about 14 kg is born after a six-month gestation period. The future of Elk seems secure, so long as the interests of hunters, livestock managers, and tourists can be balanced.

Moose
 
Range weight: 595 to 1323 pounds.
Range length: 7 to 10 feet
Season seen most: Fall
The moose (Alces alces) is a large ungulate (a mammal with hooves) that is popular with hunters and wildlife watchers alike. The species, the largest member of the deer (Cervidae) family, occurs throughout most of Alaska and Canada, as well as in parts of Eurasia, and in areas of the northeastern, midwestern, and western United States. Moose prefer forest habitats, especially those locations with a mixture of wooded areas and open areas near lakes or wetlands. Some moose make short migrations between summer and winter habitats. Moose usually occur singly or in small groups.
Moose breed in the late summer or early fall, and females typically give birth to one (rarely two) calves in late spring. Moose are herbivores that prefer to feed on aquatic vegetation and new woody growth during the spring and summer. During the winter, when preferred food items are not available, moose switch to a diet of bark and twigs from evergreen and deciduous trees. Moose are active both day and night, but peak activity occurs near dawn and dusk.

Mountain Goats
 
Range weight: 125 to 180 pounds.
Range length: 4 to 5.8 feet.
Season most seen: Summer
Mountain Goats live on remarkably steep, craggy cliffs for most of their lives, spending only about a quarter of their time in less forbidding meadows and nearby fields. The steep slopes offer safety from predators such as mountain lions and grizzly bears. The Goats eat vegetation that grows in small pockets of earth that collect among the rocks. Even when migrating to lower elevations during winter, the Goats stay on steep slopes above the timberline. There, high winds scour snow from the rocks, exposing food for forage. Special adaptations enable Mountain Goats to navigate rock faces. They have powerful forelimbs that help them climb or brake, and hooves that can spread to brake or squeeze like pincers to grasp irregularly shaped rock. They also have textured foot pads that give them extra traction. Their high-altitude habitat is harsh, and juvenile mortality is high. Goats that survive to adulthood tend not to live beyond 10 years.

Mountain Lions
 
Range weight: 64 to 265 pounds.
Range length: 2.8 to 5 feet.
Season most seen: Year round at night
Mountain lions are also known as pumas and are solitary cats, with the exception of one to six day associations during mating periods and contact between females and their young. Males occupy large territories that overlap those of several females; the boundaries of the territory are marked by scrapes left in prominent positions. Females advertise their receptivity to mating with loud scream-like calls. Mating occurs year-round, but is concentrated from December to March in northern latitudes. The female gives birth to her litter of between one and six kittens within a den; the kittens are initially blind and helpless, remaining in the den whilst their mother forages for food. At around two months of age they are able to accompany their mother on hunting forays and remain with her until around 1.5 to 2 years old. Pumas are primarily nocturnal and crepuscular, being most active at dawn and dusk, and rarely emerging in the day. These agile yet powerful cats hunt by stalking and ambushing their prey. Pumas predominantly feed on ungulates, but are known to occasionally take smaller prey. In the northern areas of their range, they feed primarily on large ungulates, including elk and occasionally domestic cattle, whereas in tropical areas their diet seems to consist of more medium-sized prey.

Mule Deer
 
Range weight: 95 to 330.6 pounds.
Range height: 2.6 to 3.4 feet.
Season most seen: Year round
Mule Deer live in a broad range of habitats - forests, deserts, and brushlands. Mountain populations migrate to higher elevation in warmer months, looking for nutrient-rich new-grown grasses, twigs, and shrubs. They maintain separate summer and winter ranges, connected by a migratory pathway. In milder climates, they do not migrate. They live in small social groups of about three, except during the winter, when large groups may come together to feed in open meadows. Females tend to stay close to where they were born. Males disperse farther, establish their own territories, and compete for access to females during the October and November breeding season. The males lose their antlers after breeding and grow new ones yearly, with each set becoming larger than the previous one. Newborns, with spotted coats, are well-camouflaged.

Whitetail Deer
 
Range weight: 125.6 to 302 pounds.
Range length: 5 to 7.2 feet.
Season most seen: Year round
The White-tailed Deer is distinguished from the Mule Deer by the smaller size of its ears, the color of its tail, and most strikingly, by antler shape. In Whitetails, the main beam of the antlers grows forward rather than upwards, and each tine develops as its own separate branch rather than being split into a forked pair. The two species also run differently when they are alarmed. Mule Deer stot, a boing-boing-boing motion in which all four feet leave and hit the ground with each bound, whereas White-tailed Deer spring forward, pushing off with their hind legs and landing on their front feet. Today White-tails are very widespread in North America: there may be as many as 15 million in the United States. These Deer are adaptable browsers, feeding on leaves, twigs, shoots, acorns, berries, and seeds, and they also graze on grasses and herbs. In areas where they live alongside Mule Deer, the species naturally separate ecologically, the Whitetails staying closer to moist streams and bottomlands, the Mule Deer preferring drier, upland places.

Gray Wolf
 
Average weight: 79 pounds.
Range length: 3 to 5 feet.
Season most seen: Winter and Spring
The gray wolf is one of the world's most well researched animals, with probably more books written about it than any other wildlife species. It has a long history of association with humans, having been despised and hunted in most agricultural communities due to its attacks on livestock, while conversely being respected by some Native American tribes. It is the sole ancestor of the dog, which was first domesticated in the Middle East. Although the fear of wolves is prevalent in many human societies, the majority of recorded attacks on people have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies. Non-rabid wolves have attacked and killed people, mainly children, but this is unusual, as wolves are relatively few, live away from people, and have been taught to fear humans by hunters and shepherds. Hunting and trapping has reduced the species' range to about one third, though its still relatively widespread range and stable population means that the species is not threatened at a global level, and is therefore classified by the IUCN as Least Concern.











